This YAML file configures a GitHub Actions workflow to automate Cypress end-to-end tests for a project. Below is a breakdown of the code:

1. Workflow Metadata

name: End-to-end tests
on: [push, pull_request]
name: Sets the name of the workflow as "End-to-end tests."
on: Defines the trigger events for the workflow:
push: Workflow runs when changes are pushed to the repository.
pull_request: Workflow runs when a pull request is opened or updated.

2. Jobs
2.1 cypress-chrome Job

jobs:
  cypress-chrome:
    runs-on: ubuntu-22.04
jobs: Contains individual tasks (or jobs) to be executed.
cypress-chrome: A job to run Cypress tests in Chrome browser.
runs-on: Specifies the environment where the job runs. Here, it's an Ubuntu 22.04 virtual machine.
Steps in cypress-chrome:

Checkout Repository

- name: Checkout repository
  uses: actions/checkout@v4
Uses GitHub's checkout action to pull the repository's code.

Install Dependencies

- name: Install dependencies
  run: npm install
Installs all required dependencies listed in the package.json file.

Run Cypress on Chrome

- name: Run Cypress on Chrome
  run: npm run cy:chrome
Executes the Cypress test suite configured for Chrome browser using a custom script (cy:chrome) defined in the package.json.

2.2 cypress-report Job

  cypress-report:
    runs-on: ubuntu-22.04
Similar setup to cypress-chrome but focuses on generating and uploading a test report.
Steps in cypress-report:

Checkout Repository
Same as above.

Install Dependencies
Same as above.

Run Cypress and Generate Report

- name: Run Cypress and generate Mochawesome report
  run: npx cypress run
Runs Cypress tests directly using the npx cypress run command.
Assumes Mochawesome (a reporting plugin) is integrated in the Cypress setup to generate an HTML test report.
Upload Report

- name: Upload Mochawesome report
  uses: actions/upload-artifact@v4
  if: always()
  with:
    name: cy-report
    path: cypress/reports/html
Uses GitHub's upload-artifact action to save the test report (located at cypress/reports/html) as an artifact.
if: always() ensures the report is uploaded even if the tests fail.

Summary
Purpose: Automate Cypress tests in CI/CD pipelines.
Workflow:
Run tests on Chrome.
(Optional) Run tests on Firefox (commented out).
Generate and upload a Mochawesome report for test results.
Artifacts: The report is uploaded to GitHub Actions for later review.